Greetings glorious God people because I wanted an alliteration today.
Today we're going to mix some coins for bollix pick up let's make money rich.
To do that we're gonna use animation player which is a really cornrowed with a lot of versatility to
it.
What I'm going to do is when I make some coins that can be collected by bunny they can exist on their
own collision there.
And after Bonnie connects a certain set of coins with which will define in a script but you'll get a
new life.
So the first thing to do is we make a new scene and I've got this weird graphics but if I move the camera
it should all vanish that's fine.
Make sure I can see 0 0 that's the coins I shot.
What kind of note do we want.
Well let's start with an animated sprites animated sprites.
There it is.
And we're going to have to add some frames to it so new Sprite frames and when click on Sprite frames.
And if we go into graphics items you see we have a bunch of coins.
Let's drag them all in.
I'll make sure my animation is playing so I can see it.
Well tweak the speed in a minute but I don't like this snapping and the reason it's snapping like that
is it's jet.
Gently turn to the side and then teleporting back here.
So let's drag in bronze three and then bronze two.
And that should look a lot better.
Speed all ten francs a second twenty second.
No that's crazy.
Fifteen.
Pick a speed you like I think 10 was the ideal speed for me.
Yeah that looks good.
So we have a coin right now.
This is a sprite.
It won't interact with the world.
So let's give the child of an aerial hoodie.
And you know what for now let's stop this from playing so you actually work on it.
All right this is going to need a collision shape or a clutch polygon a thickeners shape is the way
to go collisions sheep.
To me that you and I need a new shape and this is going to be a circle shape because then well the quiet
is a circle member grab the extents don't grab the bounding box if you grab the bounding box you going
it weird behaviour that looks actually pretty close to perfect.
What's that.
That's 43 was 40 foot is too small.
43 it is.
Well look at that.
All right.
For any further I'm going to make sure that whenever I select this I'm going to select all children
notes and I'm going to hide my coalitional.
So now whenever I move it move the entire coin.
Otherwise we're going to get some really weird behaviour when we start duplicating this coin at the
level.
OK we have a coin and we want this to do a thing.
When the player enters the body first thing I do is make sure the collision layer is correct.
Let's put the collision there.
On this empty fourth one and you know one set that before we forget sir was my college players there
under physics.
I had a sunny pickup's anything on the pick up player can only interact with the player and that should
be everything we need to do.
I'm also going to add a player to be able to interact with the pick ups just for some redundancy save
that we have a coin nemat coin.
OK let's figure what needs to happen.
Here comes bunny.
Bunny enters the area to.
The coin has to detect.
That will solve that problem right we've created this solution with spikes in the script.
There's now the hazard script.
So first you need to do is create a new script for coin and call this coin GDP or make sure put it in
our scripts follow so we can find everything.
And it probably doesn't need anything.
Ready.
Let's save the scene so far save then scenes.
It's called coin.
Great.
So what needs to happen.
Air on air is too deep.
We need to on body entered and remember body entered not Area entered because a body is entering connect
to the coin.
So when something is entering the coin that's where the script is.
What do we need to do.
We get to do two things.
Will tell game state you have a coin.
So we need to do is go global dot game state join up.
We need to create that function.
So let's create this function before we go any further.
So in my games egd which for some reason I have two of.
Let's create a coin up.
OK so what's not going to do.
It's going to go a coin.
Coins say plus equals one alright.
We need a variable not a variable called coins.
It has to be up here because it can't just exist in the function we need to keep track of these cards
just to make it very clear for itself.
Let's say coins equals zero.
We'll plug this into the galley later.
For now let's just make the coins work to make sure it's working let's go print
coins.
So whenever you pick up a coin print the value of coins.
Okay so that function is right.
Let's make the coin actually do something.
In fact let's check that work before you go any further let's create a container note.
I call it coins.
And within that we're going to.
Instance.
Re size.
Move.
You know what.
I should restart using the move like unshorn like just to make sure I scale things.
So OK let's put this coin right here.
OK it's not going to disappear but it will make a quick print out happened so.
First off.
Nothing in output.
And there's a one OK so that's working.
Next we want to check is this interact with anything else.
The reason I'm doing this.
I want to make sure that my collision layers are set correctly so let's make sure that the coin isn't
interacting with the scenery or the hazards.
It's not.
All right Cornelius But you back here for now and save that.
Okay.
Now I want the coin to not just vanish.
I want to have a cool effect.
I want to get slightly bigger and then shrink down and then die.
There's a few ways I could do this.
Initially I thought I'd use something called tween tween as a very cool node that allows you to smoothly
animate properties over time but it takes quite a lot of arguments.
In fact let's look at the documentation of a tween and your soon to be a tween.
Here's everything you need to put in for a tween.
And that's a lot of stuff to remember.
It's quite a lot of work and there's an easier way of doing this rather than toyne.
We're going to use an animation play.
Animation player allows us to use key frame animation.
Let's talk about key frame animation is before you go any further.
So here's three frames I've drawn of Bob in.
I don't know a platform game.
Why is it called Bob.
I don't know I've just always called Bob.
There are several ways we could do this now.
Originally in animation what you do is you would hand draw every single frame that gets really labour
intensive key from animation allows us to do this.
We're going to set this as key one will tell it mark the position and which spring you're using then
will mark the next position in the next frame and call that ketu.
We're not going to muck everything in between.
We're just going to mark the start and end point will do the same for key three.
Why are we picking these because these are end points.
Okay so your first major animation is key one.
Your next was ketu.
Once we have this done the software in this case godso is going to figure out how smooth this line between
these two.
We can choose the shape of this line and then it's going to figure out the smoothest line between these
two.
And we can put key frames honest x and y positions.
And on the sprite in fact we can animate almost any property.
So let's look at the animation player.
What's a good animation player selected.
You'll see the animation tab comes up first where do we create a brand you animation.
I'm going to call it die.
Why am I giving it this dramatic name.
Because this is the death animation of the court.
All right.
What needs to go in here.
Well I can mimic anything with a key symbol.
Somebody may have coins selected and I can pick any of these.
I can also.
Here are the three major ones right location rotations scale D.C. Like I think set for scale and press
this insert key that's going to insert the key for me.
Okay.
I'm not going to go through everything that the information player can do straight away.
But let's start by setting the length to one and a half seconds.
So it's getting a second half for this coin to vanish.
And zoom in a bit there.
Yeah.
So we have a key here and I think eight point eight.
I mean I can nuki.
So what's the new key.
Well there's select the scale and let's go one point five one point five is a good.
That might be a big Let's find it up to create a new key here.
The press the key icon by scale and now you'll see it does that.
At one point five I'm going to do a scale of zero point one zero point one.
Let's create that key as well.
So let's play the animation.
OK.
That's way too slow.
So instead let's move this frame to zero point four and this one to zero point eight.
I'm going to call this a 1 second fate once I can get.
OK.
Some of the tweaks a little bit and get exactly where I want it.
That feels about half the speed I want so let's put you at point five you're point three and the lake's
zero point five.
And now when I get to the beginning the press play.
Not that that's but you it's your point too.
Great.
So I've got this effect.
And I switch the animated Sprite back on to playing.
His will actually look like.
Okay.
Looks pretty at a switch off the animation for now and put you back to that beginning.
Great.
I'll get back into the script.
Let's call the animation animation player.
There it is Dot clay.
And what we're going to play going to play the die animation awesome.
So right now we have a coin that will shrink we pick it up must check how it works.
Oh I forgot to set the prototype.
Make sure you put the actual animation playing.
Otherwise no where at any point for you.
Okay once more feeling as a coin rotating.
I want to pick it up.
It gets tiny.
All right.
Now let's make it vanish entirely.
There's a couple of ways we can do this.
We could put in a timer and time exactly what'll happen.
But to be honest we don't need to do that let's create a function or die.
And that's going to happen is it's going to go.
Q free so how are going to call this because Use a timer.
And we could say okay the animation is this long and when it's done when the time is finished send a
signal and that'll call this function or we could just call the function at the right point the animation
and that way we could make the animations long short as we want.
That's right.
We can call functions in the animation player.
So let's do that.
Others go into 2D rookies who are doing oh so small.
Get back to full size are in the animation player and make a brand new track which is this plus button
here.
What kind of tracks you want call function track.
What are we going to call we'll give a court coin.
That's where the script is and you'll see here the name it's given it is dot that means just the thing
I'm calling don't fight.
That's just the note position.
So don't change that if you change it it will go wrong.
And at this point here we need to add the key frame adichie frame and let's edit it and the Edit thing
is this button here.
So what are we editing in name.
Why the name of the function.
Don't put any brackets in.
Just write the name of the function.
Let's put this back to the full size.
And test it.
Here's a coin.
There's a coin.
Now it's quite small.
So how we know it's actually gone.
OK.
Let's print something.
It's our friends.
Buy clothes and go.
And now I want to pick up the coin.
There it is.
OK.
Let's get rid of all of these printing things.
We have one there and we have one in giving state don't we don't need to print coins.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to make bunny rich.
Let's put coins around the level.
A quick tip if you have clusters of coins lots of coins together it's going to tempt players in that
direction.
So should either make those really risky or a great way to lead players the secrets.
So pause the video duplicate the coins around the place and when you come back I'll show you my layout.
Welcome back.
Okay let's get into the level and look at to.
Now the first thing I'm going to do is take my first coin and place it somewhere fun.
I think this is fun and I'm going to duplicate it.
Is that doable.
That looks pretty good to me.
Let's make sure everyone selected.
I'm going to fast forward while I do the rest of this.
OK.
Now remember I have this move to selected which makes this much easier if you have a select thing it'll
still work it just might be a little trickier to get where you need it.
Let's minimize the coins and the spikes.
Let's see how this works.
Okay.
My level a little Yahn proof or can I go up to this cake kemal CAKE AND CAKE.
Now what we're not seeing is that gooey updating or hearing any sound effects.
But that's okay.
We're going to do that soon.
Meanwhile that's looking really good to me.
So in this video we've looked at animation player and introduced the concept of key frames with played
not just with how to animate things like scale and position and that's the standard things but how to
call a function an animation player which is really versatile.
Remember almost any property and all functions can be triggered an animation so you can really save
yourself all the time.
Before we sign off of this video I'd like to encourage you to share your current level design with all
the beautiful coins and spikes and hazards with the community.
Put it on Facebook put it on dischord put it in the community forums.
Show us what you've got.
I'm dying to see the levels you guys are making.
Meanwhile great work and I'll see you in the next video.